Hey So I want to create a website application. 
It is an EV database index.  It is a comprehensive electric vehicle database website that provides detailed specifications, and real-world performance data for electric vehicles available in the Indian market. The site focuses on presenting objective information about EVs to help  buyers make informed devisions. 
Application Architecture - Frontend Components
* Vehicle listing/browsing interface
* Detailed vehicle specification pages
* Advanced filtering and sorting system
* Vehicle Search functionality
  Backend Services - 
    * Filtering and search logic
    * Comparison engine   

Key Features & Implementation  -
 1. Vehicle Database & Information Architecture
Here is what I want the database to have:
Core Tables-  A. Manufacturers EV manufacturers with name and country information (softcoded - modifiable).
B. Body Styles - Different vehicle body types ( hardcoded -only these - Sedan, SUV, MPV, hatchback, coupe, convertible, non-modifable)
C. Drive Types - Vehicle drive configurations (only these - FWD, RWD, AWD, hardcoded - non modiafable).
D. Battery Types
Different battery chemistries used in EVs (Harcoded - non modifable - only these - LFP, NCA, NCM)
E. Charging Port Location, Where the charging port is located on the vehicle (hardcoded, non modifiable - front, rear, left-side, right-side)
F. Range Rating System - (hardcoded, non-modifable, includes only ARAI, MIDC, WLTP and NEDC).

Now you gotta understand the Hierarchical structure: Manufacturer → Model → Vehicle variant.
Each manufacturer may have multiple car models, each car model can have multiple variants, each variant counts as a unique vehicle to us, but all variants of a model share some information. Lets talk about all this in great detail about what these database should accomplish - 
G. Car Models-
Specific models from manufacturers
Includes the following details:
Manufacturer ID (link to manufacturer table)
Model name
Body style ID (link to body style table)
Image (URL to vehicle image)
Charging port location ID (link to charging port location table)
Boot space in liters
Manufacturing start year
Manufacturing end year (optional input)
View count of the model (each view-detail click on the website increments the value by one)

H. Now lets talk about Vehicle, each Individual vehicle is an individual variant of each model
It stores detailed technical specifications including:
Model ID (link to car model table)
Variant name
Drive type ID (link to drive type table)
Battery type ID (link to battery type table)
Battery capacity in kWh
Usable battery capacity in kWh
Battery warranty in years
Battery warranty in kilometers
Official range in kilometers
Range rating system (ARAI, WLTP, NEDC or MIDC.)
Real-world range in kilometers (this is important and we are going to dinamically calculate this with our range estimator tool)
Efficiency in Wh/km
Horsepower (BHP)
Torque in Nm
Acceleration in seconds (0-100 km/h)
Top speed in km/h
Fast charging capacity in kW
Fast charging time in minutes (10% to 80%)
Weight in kilograms
Vehicle-to-Load (V2L) support (boolean)
V2L output power in watts 
Price in lakh (Indian currency unit)
This is all about the primary core tables.
There is so much confusion between arai, midc, wltp and  nedc range that I want to give the most realistic real world range ever. first, as a single number in the grid/listings of vehicle and then when opened vehicle card - Real world Range estimates in different driving conditions ( I am planning to build an range estimator in vehicle details section which we will do later and that is basically the Real-world range in kilometers thing )

 Okay so Along with this we also have - 
Advanced Filtering
The vehicleFilterSchema in a comprehensive set of filtering options for searching and sorting vehicles:
Filtering Parameters-

Manufacturer Filtering
manufacturerId: Filter by a single manufacturer
manufacturerIds: Filter by multiple manufacturers

Body Style Filtering
bodyStyleId: Filter by a single body style
bodyStyleIds: Filter by multiple body styles

Drive Type Filtering
driveTypeIds: Filter by multiple drive types (FWD, RWD, AWD)

Battery Type Filtering
batteryTypeIds: Filter by multiple battery chemistries (LFP, NCA and NCM)

Price Range Filtering
minPrice: Minimum price in lakh
maxPrice: Maximum price in lakh

Range Filtering
minRange: Minimum range in kilometers
maxRange: Maximum range in kilometers

Performance Filtering
minAcceleration: Minimum acceleration time (0-100 km/h)
maxAcceleration: Maximum acceleration time (0-100 km/h)
minHorsepower: Minimum horsepower (BHP)
maxHorsepower: Maximum horsepower (BHP)
minTorque: Minimum torque in Nm
maxTorque: Maximum torque in Nm


Charging Filtering
minFastCharging: Minimum fast charging capacity in kW
maxFastCharging: Maximum fast charging capacity in kW


Battery Filtering
minBatteryCapacity: Minimum battery capacity in kWh
maxBatteryCapacity: Maximum battery capacity in kWh


Weight Filtering
minWeight: Minimum weight in kg
maxWeight: Maximum weight in kg


Feature Filtering
v2lSupport: Filter vehicles with Vehicle-to-Load support


Text Search (important)
searchTerm: Search across vehicle models and variants


Now, moving on. to sorting.
Sorting Options - 
The schema supports sorting results by various criteria:

popular: Sort by popularity (based on view count)
price_low: Sort by price (lowest first)
price_high: Sort by price (highest first)
range_high: Sort by range (highest first)
battery_high: Sort by battery capacity (highest first)
efficiency: Sort by efficiency (Wh/km) (high to low)
acceleration: Sort by acceleration time (low to high)
weight_low: Sort by weight (lowest first)
weight_high: Sorty by weight (highest first)
cost_per_km: Sort by cost per kilometer
charging_fast: Sort by fast charging capability
horsepower: Sort by horsepower 
torque: Sort by torque

Pagination
page: Current page number (defaults to 1)
perPage: Number of results per page (defaults to 10)


Now, lets move on to User Interface Components 

1. Vehicle Browsing
    * Paginated results 
    * Grid layout with vehicle cards
    * Multiple sorting options (as per in the scema above)
    * Responsive design adapting to different screen sizes   2. Advanced Filtering System
    * Multiple filter categories (which are  as per mentioned above in the scema) These above are the primary filters which are displayed on the home screen, now a more filters options below it which has the more filters that include filter of  - Feature (V2L), Drive (fwd,awd or rwd) and battery type (LFP,NCA and NCM)
    * Price and Actual range sliders (primary) More sliders option includes - (acceleration (2-25 seconds) slider, fast charge (0-300kw) slider, battery (5-200kwH) slider
   
    *Critical -  Filter combination logic  Sorting should work even after multiple filters are applied. 
Now moving on away from homescreen, we should have -  3. Vehicle Detail Pages (when from home one of the vehicle card is clicked): 
 First includes -  Useable Battery, actual Range and Efficiency 
    * Then additional info present in the database of that vehicle), Tabbed or sectioned information layout.  Then I am planning on an advanced actual range estimator thing which should be placed here on vehicle details page, leave space for this. 

Now how it should work -   When the website is opened. I should get a grid view list of all vehicles, sorted by popularity.  Entire site should be SEO friendly.  The first page should very fast for SEO (critical). 
  A. Now for desktop users - Then at the Top Text that says “All Electric Vehicles”.    Then below that 2 Filter categories (which are - 1. Manufacturer, 2. body style.  These filters are essentially buttons when press a dropdowns appears with ‘tick’ option to apply the filters. Below that, are price and range sliders (5 lakhs to 2.5 crore) and  range (0-1000kms). The "More Filters" button is centrally positioned beneath the two main slider controls (Price, Range) It features a downward-pointing chevron/arrow icon (▼) to indicate expansion functionality. Now we have a ‘more filters button and after clicking it - 	•	The button text changes to "Less Filters" (with an upward-pointing chevron/arrow) Position remains the same. And we get an expanded panel.  	1	Expanded Panel:
    * Additional filter options appear beneath the original sliders
    * Checkbox-based filters are arranged in categorical groups
    * Additional slider controls are presented in a similar style to the main sliders
    * The panel expands vertically, pushing the search results further down the page. 	•	Consistent styling between original and expanded filters.  Now here is UI placement for desktop-
* Main Layout Structure
* Top Header Bar - Full width
* Main Content Container - Centered, ~80% width of viewport
* Title Area - "All electric vehicles in India“ .
 And Now comes the filter area
* Dropdown Filters - Horizontal row of 2 equal-width dropdowns:
    * Manufacturer |  Body Style 
* Slider Filters - Horizontal row of 2 equal-width sliders:
    * Price | Range. Each slider has drag points on both sides
* More Filters Button - Centered below sliders
* Expanded Filters (when clicked):
    * Multiple rows of checkboxes in categories
    * Additional slider controls in rows
* Search & Sort
* Search Bar - Left side
* Results Count - Center
* Sort Dropdown - Right side
* Vehicle Listings- 
* Vehicle Cards - Stacked vertically, full width
* Card Layout (left to right):
    * Image (left, ~20% width)
    * Vehicle specs (center, ~60% width)
    * Pricing (right, ~20% width)
* Vehicle Specs Arrangement:
    * Vehicle name  at top
    * 3×3 grid of specifications below
* Pagination
* Page Info - "Page 1 of x” (left)
* Page Buttons - Numbered navigation (center)
* Results Per Page - Dropdown (right)


    *   Now let me explain for mobile-  The Main content area top section has title “All Electric vehicles in India” Below that we have  Filter Controls (arranged in two rows of two components each)
    * - Row 1:
    * - Manufacturer down arrow (dropdown) when clicked opens dropdow of brand names.
    * - "More Filters" button with funnel icon when clicked opens a screen  with  the remaining filters starting from Manufacturer, Body Style in first two rows and body style in the third row. Then across the device’s width 2 sliders (price and range) are stacked one above other. Then the actual more filter section that which are- more filters that include  - Features (V2L), Drive type (fwd,awd or rwd) and battery chemistry/battery tech (LFP,NCA,NCM) these are the other filters.
 Then on the opened screen we have the remaining sliders i.e includes - (acceleration (2-25 seconds) slider, fast charge (0-300kw) slider, battery (5-200kwH) slider. This opened area has top right x to close it and apply button at bottom across the width. once we close or apply we see the main screen again where now, -
    * - Row 2:
    * - Search field with magnifying glass icon and clear (×) button
    * - Sort dropdown ("Most Viewed") with down arrow.

Now, The most critical point, the entire site should be very very well optimised for mobile even visually as 90 percent traffic is from mobile,   

Okay, about the database and deployement. We are going to deploy it on heroku with postgre SQL. Right now its okay if use local host until we build everything, then we can migrate to Heroku. 
Start creating. Also, don't miss a single point which I mentioned above, it may help if you create requirements.txt and after you complete a response match what you did with what the requirements were. And do remember the thing about offical range and real world range, offical range is the one claimed by the manufacturer while real world range is the one which we will dynamically update in the database from our range estimator tool which we are yet to build.

Make sure the UI is modern, sleek, beautiful and very responsive. Go on. Yet the application should not use over the top components making it hard to build and compile and migrate, it should use simple, proven reliable tech stack which is easy to migrate into heroku.